# Entry 2
##### 12/10/24

### Context

Since I have locked in KaboomJS as my official tool, over the past few weeks, I have tinkered with my tool. Throughout the tinkering process, I had various resources I utilized to further my understanding of Kaboom. One such resource was their [official documentation](https://kaboomjs.com/) provided by the devs. Another way I found resources was by looking online, videos, articles, and images all served to further my understanding of Kaboom. The videos and the official website helped the most as they would give you a rundown of the code while explaining their signifigance, allowing me to pick apart the code for my own use in my own repo, as can be seen in my learning log.

### Starting Point
First, I looked on the official documentation for KaboomKJS, using the CLI tool for Kaboom.js into my repo ([here](https://kaboomjs.com/doc/setup)). After that was done, I followed the instructions to get started, I saw how it guided me through the first few steps inside, it said to use `npm run dev` within the console to see the result as opposed to `http-server` which we have used for the entire time. After booting that up, you could see the starter code they give you and their result, you start with a bean sprite and whenever you clicked, there would be a kaboom effect. To get started with my own tinkering, I just had to change the JS within the main.js file. And so I started with making a platform my bean sprite can stand on, I started by using `add([])`, and within it, I created a rectangle by using `rect(width(), 300)` this would create a rectangle spanning the entire screen with a length of 300. Additionally, to make the floor static / or in other terms, able for the bean to stand on it and not fall through, I used the `area()` which allowed other sprites to interact with it and `body({ isStatic: true })` which made it so other sprites that move and go past it. I wanted the floor to be, on the floor, so I used the `pos()`, or position line to keep it on thr bottom. `pos(0, height() - 250)` made it so that it would be 250 above the bottom of the screen.

#### Adding challenges
As I looked for additional challenges to put into my game, such as using spikes, a pit of doom, or maybe a wall. When I looked at the tutorial documentation, I saw how I could add a simple infinite moving object by using a `move()` line, in that line, I just had to specify the the direction and speed. Combined with the rectangle and then specifiying the position of the obstacle, I was able to have one obstacle constantly move left on the floor I had created previously, though that wasn't enough and so I employed my knowledge of loops and added a loop to the obstacle code so I can have infinite. So together with `loop()` and my obstacle code, I had constant obstacles oncoming every second. But I wanted to add more and I had some ideas of what I wanted to do, I wanted the top to also have an obstacle moving the same direction, needing the player to time their jumps. But before all that, I wanted my bean sprite to move and so I started by giving it a body with `area()` and `body()`, allowing the bean to collide with the obstacle and allows the bean to move to gravity. Afterwards, I set my gravity and my bean fell down to the static floor. Still I wasn't done, my bean couldn't move nor was it dying to the collisions with the obstacle.

#### Final Stretch
Since I had a clear gameplan in mind, I quickly found the parts I needed to do what I needed with my Bean within the official documentation. I saw how you could utilize an if statement to allow the bean to jump only if he was on the ground, making so the bean couldn't jump infinitely. I wrote `onKeyPress("w", () => { if (bean.isGrounded()) {bean.jump();} });` allowing my bean to jump only when grounded on the floor I made. Then to make the collisions able to be seen, I make the screen shake at every instace the bean collided with the obstacle using; `player.onCollide("tree", () => { addKaboom(bean.pos); shake(); });`. With that, I was almost done with my mini game I put together while tinkering. For my final part, I wanted to add a roof and make the player have to time their jumps or they would "lose". So I started tinkering with the floor I had, I first did away with the "static" part as it would only serve as a roof and I removed the `pos(0, height() - 250)` part as that made it go from the bottom up. This solved the ceiling part and now all I had to do to finish was making the top obstacle. As a start, similar to making the ceiling, making the top obstacles was somewhat simple after understanding what each line did. I tinkered with the code a bit and ended up adding the top obstacles using the same code but changing their positions in order to have them line up with my ceiling. And with that I was done with my minigame that I have created through tinkering.

#### Near-Future (Break)
As the first game was done, we started another minigame, this time with a completely different theme, compared to the jumping game, this time we would be making a platformer game with different levels. I have progressed a bit on it and hope to progress further. Through my first game, I have learnt a lot of kaboom and while learning, I found numerous resources to use to help me along the way, and so with that said, I hope to add another level during the break, along with adding sound effects to when the bean interacts with the coin and portal. Those seem to be doable and I hope to acomplish that during my breaktime.

### EDP
Currently I believe that me and my partner Joe are on steps 2 and 3 still, we are still mainly assessing the situation while also probing around with what kaboom brings to the table. Since we have done so much with kaboom though, we are also seeing what we can make ourselves, acknowledging possible solutions and builds we can possibly make in the future.

### Skills

#### Problem Decomposition
Throughout my time working on my first Kaboom game, I had big ideas and wanted to implement all of them. I saw on the documentation of what you could do and I wanted to do the same as them and even better. Though as I tried working on it myself, even starting was difficult, it was a completely new concept to me and that meant needing time to understand it all. Though I had a clear endgoal, the process wasn't so clear. But I treaded onwards, starting small, starting with just rectangles, and configuring their shape to my desire. Little by little and part by part, I eventually finished my first Kaboom minigame by myself, and it was only possible by deconstructing the entire plan I had into managable and doable pieces.

#### Time Management
Throught my tinkering with a new tool, I needed more hours than I thought, learning the new concepts, but it was only manageable through the time management skills I have been practicing, recently, I have been getting into ping pong and that was afterschools. By the time I had finished practice, I would have already lost half the day, factoring in what I needed to do at home, I only managed to finish my tasks and homework due to pritotizing thge things I could do first and asking for help on those that I didn't understand. I had pulled myself together despite the time crunch becuase of how I utilized my resources, allowing me to finish my tasks in a timely fashion.

[Previous](entry01.md) | [Next](entry03.md)

[Home](../README.md)
